Welcome to the data engineering Nanodegree program.
I'm Sam, and I'm a product leader Udacity.
I work with a great team of industry experts and
curriculum designers to put this program together.
I'm very excited to have you join us.
So why data engineering?
Data engineering plays a vital role in storing,
organizing and making use of data.
The speed and volume of information we generate everyday is incredible.
Every-time you open your phone,
click an app, or make a purchase, you're creating data.
Many of the products we use on a daily basis are powered by this data.
Companies across industries are scrambling to reinvent
themselves in order to use data to better serve the customers,
build better products, and even make the world a better place.
Data engineers are crucial to this effort.
The pipelines they build and databases they design
are the foundation that all other analytics,
data science and artificial intelligence efforts are built on.
Without this important work,
data simply sits in a data center and takes up space.
Having strong data engineers is one of
the first and most important steps in the digital transformation process.
When working with big data,
there are dozens of tools to choose from,
and it can get confusing fast.
This program will help you understand the big data ecosystem,
and build your fluency in a modern set of tools.
The curriculum was designed with input from
several expert data engineers from some of
the most advanced data-driven companies in the world.
Each of the instructors has extensive experience in this field.
As a result, the skills you learn are directly
applicable to what data engineers do on the job.
During the program, you'll learn to model data,
build production ready data warehouses,
and data lakes, process massive amounts of data
using modern tools and automate data pipelines.
Along the way, you'll build a set of projects with guidance from mentors.
These projects are designed to imitate what you do on the job as a data engineer.
Every project you submit gets reviewed,
and our project viewers will provide
personalized feedback on how you can improve your work.
These projects will serve as a portfolio you can use to demonstrate your skills.
After completing the program,
you'll be prepared to land a job as a data engineer,
or bring these crucial skills to your current role.
We're excited and honored that you are taking this step in your journey with us.